[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
You know, we have had many
guests on this program,
but this one is very
special to all of us,
because she's got
a heart of gold.
Her name is Roberta Grimes,
and she is a retired business
attorney.
She has spent decades
extensively studying the death
process, life after death, the
amazing physics of the greater
reality, and the
nature of spirituality,
and the meaning of the
purpose of human life.
Try doing all that.
That's very busy, Roberta.
>>ROBERTA GRIMES: Well, you
know, everyone needs a hobby,
so that's been mine.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
How did you get involved in
all of this, as an attorney,
and then studying the
afterlife and spirituality?
My gosh.
>>GRIMES: Well, when
I was a small child--
I was eight years old--
I woke up in the
middle of the night.
I knew there was no god.
I was terrified.
And in the middle of the room,
there was a flash of light,
and a voice said,
"You wouldn't know
what it is to have
me, if you didn't know
what it is to be without me.
I will never leave you again."
>>NOORY: At eight years old?
>>GRIMES: Eight years old.
Of course, when
you're eight, nothing
surprises you, because
everything is surprising.
>>NOORY: Did you
understand that?
>>GRIMES: Nope.
All I knew-- what my immediate
thought-- and I remember
this-- was, oh, that's handy.
If you forget there's
a god, they remind you.
And I went back to sleep.
But those experiences
remain forever fresh.
I majored in
Christianity in college.
That was a mistake, I thought.
>>NOORY: You majored
in Christianity?
>>GRIMES: I did.
>>NOORY: Well, now, let me ask
you something for a second.
What is a major in Christianity?
>>GRIMES: I studied the
history of Christianity.
>>NOORY: And you get
a degree in that?
>>GRIMES: Oh, yes.
And it gets you into law
school, believe it or not.
You can study, you
know, basket weaving
and get into law school.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
Isn't that strange?
>>NOORY: Interesting.
You could have been a minister,
or whatever you wanted to do,
huh?
>>GRIMES: I thought
that was my only option.
And what I was waiting
for was someone
to say what had happened to me.
But I never asked a question,
and I never got an answer.
So I was really bummed.
Came home when I was 20, during
that summer, for my summer job,
and I sat down in my bed feeling
really disgusted with myself.
What do I do now,
with this major?
I mean, I wasn't even
Catholic, couldn't be a nun.
There was nothing
you could do with it.
So over my right shoulder,
splashing in the room,
was the same light.
And the same voice said,
"I will never leave you."
So that was how I knew
that what I remembered--
>>NOORY: From eight years
old, and then back to 20,
it pops up again.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
And that was how I knew
that I had to find out
what was behind the curtain.
And that's what I've been
doing for my entire life.
>>NOORY: So you had this
degree in Christianity.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Then you
go to law school?
>>GRIMES: What else can you do
with a degree in Christianity
if you don't want
to be a minister?
>>NOORY: I have no idea.
>>GRIMES: Yeah, I
went to law school.
>>NOORY: So what
school did you go to?
>>GRIMES: BU.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>GRIMES: Boston University.
>>NOORY: All right, good school.
>>GRIMES: Very good school.
It's a better school now
than when I went, actually.
So that's great.
>>NOORY: So you
took that degree,
and then you practiced
what kind of law?
>>GRIMES: I practiced
small business law.
For the past 30 years,
I've been working
for family-owned businesses,
small businesses. $50 million
would be very big for us.
>>NOORY: Incorporating them,
contracts, all kinds of things,
right?
>>GRIMES: Mainly, it
was small businesses
that were family businesses.
I'm working now
with a business that
is in its third generation.
We're raising the
fourth generation.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
And they would run
the gamut of what?
Cleaners, little restaurants,
things like that?
>>GRIMES: A foundry.
A lot of contractors.
Yes.
Professional people,
doctors, dentists.
>>NOORY: Are you
still doing that,
or are you done with that now?
>>GRIMES: I have just
retired finally from it.
>>NOORY: You've
retired from that.
And now you're devoting
your full time toward--
what would we call it?
What would you be now?
A spiritual advisor, a teacher?
What are you?
>>GRIMES: I'm a teacher
more than anything,
but I'm still
doing the research.
Because what happens,
when you understand
what happens at
death, and you then
understand how the universe is
part of this gigantic whole,
you also learn, for the
first time, why we're here.
Why does the universe exist?
Why are we here?
And when you learn that,
you become deeply involved
in understanding spirituality.
That's where I'm going.
>>NOORY: Those are amazing
questions to ask people.
Because, if you can
get answers to that--
because I ask them to
myself all the time--
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: --you're on to
something if you can do that.
>>GRIMES: The answers are
there, and they're obvious.
When you have done
enough of this research,
it all comes together.
>>NOORY: Why are you so
convinced that life after death
exists?
>>GRIMES: Why am I
convinced that you exist?
>>NOORY: Well, you can see me.
I'm here.
>>GRIMES: I can see that, too.
Because I was very
skeptical in beginning.
What first got me, there was
a heyday of communication,
which was about 100 years ago--
long ago range.
A lot of them are in books.
There were people who carefully
studied these communications,
and they're in books.
If you read all of those books,
which I did for a decade,
they're all talking
about the same place.
I'd saw no copying.
But it's the same
physics, the same process,
the same way they dress,
the same things they do.
I'd never found an outlier.
So if you have hundreds
of communications
from people you used
to think were dead,
and they're talking
about where they are now,
and it's all the same, even
I was convinced in the end.
>>NOORY: What if,
though, that there
is this big scheme
by religion to create
this feeling that
life after death
exists so they can control
you, so they can monitor you,
so they can keep you in order.
Because without it, how
stark would life be?
If you actually believed
that this existence was it,
wouldn't you do things
a little differently?
>>GRIMES: What if it's
a scheme by religions?
It can't be.
Because one of the first things
the dead make clear to us,
when we talk to
them, is there is
no religion that has it right.
The death of Jesus on
the cross has never
made a single difference for
one person in all this time.
That's not why he came.
Christianity has
it all wrong, and I
bet they all have it all wrong.
So it certainly isn't
seen by religions,
because religions
are going to die
when everyone knows the truth.
But what would happen if
people knew the truth?
That's something that
I've been wrestling with.
I think that, inevitably,
what would happen
would be that we
would all concentrate
on growing spiritually.
Because what we don't
know is that we're here
for this very brief
period of time
to raise our vibration away
from fear and toward love.
Consciousness is
all that exists.
Max Planck said that.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GRIMES: And it's just
we all know it is true.
The only people
that don't know it
are the scientists who
refuse to believe it.
But we come here
because it's very hard
to raise our vibration in what
we think of as the afterlife.
But it's really real life.
And the only way to raise
your consciousness vibration
is to cease to be
stressed by negativity.
If there ever were a way to
be stressed by negativity,
it's to come here
and take a lifetime.
And we plan all this awful
stuff into our lives.
You know, the old question,
why do bad things happen
to good people?
Because that's
what they planned.
Because this is so-- there's
so little importance.
Yes, I'll plan my
child will die.
Yes, I'll plan I'll have
this horrible illness.
Because these are
great opportunities
to be stressed and
grow spiritually.
>>NOORY: Would you live
your life differently,
if you believed there
was no afterlife?
>>GRIMES: I'm sure I would.
Oh, I'm sure I would.
Yeah.
Because, you know,
why not cheat people?
Why not kill, if you
can get away with it?
Why not grab money,
if money mattered?
But once you know
what's going on,
you don't want anything, except
love, joy, and perfect harmony
in the world.
>>NOORY: Roberta, noted
neurologist, Dr. Eben
Alexander, had a
near-death experience
and came back to talk about it.
>>EBEN ALEXANDER: But,
in essence, it all
started in what I call
the earthworm eye view.
Very primitive, course,
unresponsive realm,
like being in dirty jello
with roots or blood vessels
all around me.
And that seemed to go
on for a very long time.
Now, when I first came back to
this world and wrote it all up,
I thought that that earthworm
eye view, as I called it,
was simply the best
consciousness my physical brain
could muster when the
neocortex was being destroyed
by bacterial meningitis.
The good news is that
didn't last forever.
I was rescued by a slowly
spinning, very clear
white light, with fine
gold and silvery tendrils
coming off of it.
And it had a perfect
musical melody.
And, as it came towards
me, slowly spinning,
it opened up, like a rip in the
fabric of that ugly earthworm
eye view, that course
realm, and led up
into this brilliant,
ultra-real valley,
what I call the gateway valley.
Now, it's gateway, because
it was only kind of the entry
point to multiple levels going
all the way out to the core.
But that, I believe--
that gateway valley--
is the same realm
that I believe all
spiritually journeyers
into the spiritual realm
over thousands of years
have encountered
that same thing.
And it's often put together.
And then we come back with
some of our prior beliefs,
and our personal mindset,
kind of shaping it.
And our words and
language reflects that.
But, in fact, when you read
many of these accounts--
thousands of these
accounts-- what stands out
are the similarities.
Now, in my particular
case, that gateway valley
was a speck of awareness
on a butterfly wing.
There were millions
of other butterflies,
and they were flying in
these looping spirals,
and they were of colors
beyond the rainbow.
And they would--
>>NOORY: Jeez, it's like being
in a kaleidoscope almost,
right?
>>ALEXANDER: It was very
much like a kaleidoscope.
And then flying down
into that lush greenery,
this valley was absolutely
fertile, rich, lush
with life and creation.
No sign of any death or decay.
And going into that, I remember
sensing the flowers, buds,
blossoms on trees.
Everything was always opening--
dynamic, creative, blooming.
Every bit of it.
And down below, in
this valley, were
thousands of what I called in
my early writings villagers.
You know, they were
souls between lives.
Lots of joy and
dancing, merriment.
Children playing, dogs jumping.
I mean, incredible festivities.
And it was all being driven,
because, up above, were
these golden orbs
of light swooping,
leaving sparkling trails against
that blue-black, velvety sky.
And all the scene lit by these
billowing clouds of color.
>>NOORY: OK, so there you go.
Is he not a witness
to the afterlife?
>>GRIMES: No.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>GRIMES: He's a witness to
some wonderful things that
happened in the astral.
The people that we used
to think were dead,
and we have much better
communications now, actually,
than ever before,
tell us consistently
that nobody comes
back from death.
It's a one-way trip always.
So anyone like him,
who has been close--
>>NOORY: And there
have been many.
>>GRIMES: There have been many.
And because it's such an
extraordinary experience,
many people say, oh,
I saw the afterlife.
None of them ever have.
In fact, near-death
experiences are aberrant.
>>NOORY: Would you tell
him that to his face?
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
If we want to know the
truth about the afterlife,
we cannot entertain the
possibility that that kind
of thing actually happens in the
afterlife, because it doesn't.
>>NOORY: What is the
afterlife, in your opinion?
>>GRIMES: Well,
here's the thing--
>>NOORY: And you've never died.
You've never gone
to the other side.
So how would you know?
>>GRIMES: Nobody
has, and come back.
Nobody, not one person.
I recently, I
should just add, had
Raymond Moody on my
own program, which
is called "Seek Reality
with Roberta Grimes."
He admitted-- he said he
doesn't know what goes
on in the afterlife
really, because--
he even said, I
thought this was cute--
that's why I call them
near-death experiences,
because they weren't
real death experiences.
>>NOORY: Right.
Right.
Well, what is it,
though, in your opinion?
I guess you don't know.
>>GRIMES: No, I do.
Here's the thing--
most of reality
is what's called
the astral plane.
It's many times the size of
this entire physical universe.
It's gigantic.
Think of it as a desert.
And, in that desert,
there are oases.
There are small cities.
And there's one
gorgeous, gigantic city.
That's our afterlife.
>>NOORY: What kind
of city is it?
>>GRIMES: It's-- because--
>>NOORY: Is it Shangri-La?
>>GRIMES: Think of it
as an energy barrier
around that core city,
which is our afterlife.
You can't go through
it and come back out.
He could never go through
In a near-death experience
that's extensive, often
you'll get to a point where
you will hear a voice saying,
you are about to
enter the afterlife.
It's a one-way trip.
And then people have
to make a choice.
Yeah, I want to die now,
or I'm going to wait.
Many NDEs have that happen.
>>NOORY: Is there a hell?
>>GRIMES: There is no hell.
There is what Jesus
called an outer darkness.
So let's talk about then
how this is all constructed.
The only thing that
exists is consciousness.
Consciousness exists at
a range of vibrations
from the lowest, which is fear,
to the highest, which is love.
And, in the afterlife,
all of it exists--
and actually, here,
too, although we
believe there's a lot
more space than there is--
but, in the afterlife, it
all exists in the same place.
So what happens when you
die, it's really simple.
Your mind is right
now tuned to that body
on this level of reality.
And that's why you think you're
in that body, but you aren't.
You're not even close to it.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>GRIMES: So what
happens when you
die is that your
mind, like a TV set,
just tunes to a slightly higher
vibration of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Doesn't shut off?
>>GRIMES: Nope.
It's impossible for
your mind to die.
Your mind is part of eternity.
There is no time, and
there is no space.
So if you exist now,
you always existed,
and you always will exist.
Time is meaningless
to something that's
eternal, which your mind is.
So, anyway, you tune to this
slightly higher vibration,
and there you pick up a
whole new solid reality
right in the same place.
>>NOORY: All right, so what
you're saying, though, Roberta,
is someone like
Dannion Brinkley, who
claims he's died several times
and has come back, did not die.
>>GRIMES: No, he didn't die.
Where do the experiences
come from that people have?
Those who are aiding them
through this experience
of being out of their
bodies pull from their minds
information, and give
it to them in ways
that are meant to help
them grow spiritually.
So if someone is
religious, they're not
going to be shown that there's
no religion, there's no god,
there's no anything
that they believe in.
If they believe they
should go to hell,
they're going to be in hell.
Then they'll go,
oh, my goodness,
I don't want to be in hell, and
immediately they're out of it
again.
>>NOORY: But you are
absolutely convinced that there
is an afterlife?
>>GRIMES: Oh, sure.
>>NOORY: But how do you know?
You're not-- you never died.
So how would you know?
>>GRIMES: I think, eventually,
you get hit over the head
enough times by the same facts,
you start to accept them.
>>NOORY: You're saying that
the facts you've accumulated
have convinced you about this?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
Not only that, but
they all fit together.
There's this gigantic whole.
And whenever we find
something new-- at this point,
we have so much knowledge
and information--
we look at how it fits.
If it doesn't fit,
we put it over here.
We say, maybe it fits,
but we aren't sure yet.
People who are doing
this work seriously--
and there's a whole group of
people, as you know, who are--
don't easily add things
to whatever it is we're
assembling.
But we are assembling
a true picture
of what reality actually is.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing feat
of believing what it might be.
>>GRIMES: Or knowing
what it might be.
>>NOORY: Do we have
any other evidence
that would back this up?
>>GRIMES: Well, we have
all kinds of evidence.
I mean, it's--
>>NOORY: You're a lawyer.
You know what
evidence is all about.
>>GRIMES: Yeah, but I was
never a courtroom lawyer.
I thought that was kind
of an icky thing to do,
so I never did it.
So I tend to be more
of a consensus person.
All the evidence points to
the same thing, evidence--
>>NOORY: That there's something.
>>GRIMES: No,
exactly what it is.
I mean, we have so many accounts
of what the afterlife is like.
We know, for example,
that there are
almost infinite gradations
of consciousness
in the afterlife levels.
And we-- for convenience,
someone named George Meek,
I don't know, 50, 70 years ago--
>>NOORY: I know,
the voice machine
for contacting the dead.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRIMES: Well,
one of the things
he did was to give
us a handy way
to look at all those
infinite gradations.
So we use his formula, which
is there are seven levels.
The lowest is what Jesus called
the outer darkness, where
there'll be wailing
and gnashing of teeth.
>>NOORY: Which some
people would call hell?
>>GRIMES: Yeah,
but it's not fiery.
God doesn't put you there.
You put yourself there.
>>NOORY: There's not
Lucifer running around--
>>GRIMES: No.
>>NOORY: --pitchforking you?
It is basically you
have exiled yourself
from interaction with
people, because you
have condemned yourself.
You can't forgive yourself.
Learning to forgive yourself is
the most important thing anyone
can do, because
the day will come
when you are in a situation
where you are trying
to understand your whole
life and put it together,
and around you are your
guides, other advisors,
and they're going
to say, OK, forgive
everybody that ever harmed you.
And I don't care what they did,
you always immediately forgive.
Then they're going to
say, now forgive yourself.
>>NOORY: In your opinion, take
us through the dying process,
and then what
happens after that.
>>GRIMES: OK.
Most people, virtually all of
us, take planned exit points.
When we're planning our-- we
plan our lives ahead of time
with our guides, and
with other advisors,
and with the people
who are going
to be important in our lives,
like who we're going to marry
and stuff.
And then, once that
plan is all put together
and we have been allowed to
select a body, we're born.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>GRIMES: But our guides
are right there with us,
and they're trying to
make sure that we hit
the marks we set for ourselves.
>>NOORY: All along the way?
>>GRIMES: All along the way.
No one can be in a body
without a spirit guide.
So everybody listening
has a spirit guide.
>>NOORY: So you go
through your life.
>>GRIMES: Yep, go
>>NOORY: You do your thing.
Some are good, some are
bad, but you do your thing,
and then you get old
and sick, and you die.
>>GRIMES: Or you do it young.
>>NOORY: Or you do
it young, sadly.
>>GRIMES: Yeah, or sad-- or
maybe it was planned that way.
>>NOORY: I know, but--
>>GRIMES: Mikey Morgan
was a very advanced being,
who decided to take
a short lifetime.
And we usually plan two
or three exit points
into our lives, usually
one early, one middle,
and one in old age.
He planned two, and the
second one was at 20.
So he was going to leave at
20, regardless, and he did.
>>NOORY: That's short, to me.
Very short.
>>GRIMES: Yeah,
but he just wanted
to get a flavor of who we
are, so he could teach us.
His book is called "Flying High
in Spirit," and it's out again.
It's terrific.
>>NOORY: All right, so, anyways,
regardless of the age, you die.
Your physical body is now done.
>>GRIMES: It could
be in an accident.
Those are planned as
well, almost always.
It could be from an illness,
or it could be from old age.
But you're heading
for an exit point,
and your higher
consciousness, because we
leave probably 90% of our minds
inaccessible to us, and they,
and our guides, and we, at night
when we meet with our guides,
work out, well, should
we take this exit point?
You know, we've done most of
what we can with this lifetime.
Let's do it.
So you're 48, or something.
And you now know, at a level way
above your conscious awareness,
that you're going to
take this exit point.
Over and over again, I'll
talk with people about people
who have just died, and you can
see that, for a year, often,
they were in a process
of winding it up.
They did things they had
planned to do all their lives.
They reconnected
with loved ones.
Very often, husbands will say,
OK, here are the passwords,
or here are the bank accounts.
>>NOORY: Yeah, this is where the
money's stashed, or whatever.
>>GRIMES: Right.
We wrap it up.
>>NOORY: All right.
But so, you die.
>>GRIMES: You die.
>>NOORY: Now what happens?
>>GRIMES: Well, as
you're approaching death,
usually your body is, as
we know, falling apart.
Your body wants
to survive, so you
have to get it really weakened.
>>NOORY: It fights it.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
During the few days
before your death,
usually there's a
burst of energy.
Doctors see that
as death is coming.
And then, within about
24 hours or thereabouts,
or up to just an hour
or two before you die,
you suddenly see people around
your bed you thought were dead.
They look young, healthy, happy.
Sometimes it's one.
Sometimes it's a crowd.
>>NOORY: Sometimes
relatives that died.
>>GRIMES: Often, it's relatives.
It could be people who
were just close friends.
It could be a pet.
>>NOORY: What if you
don't get visited at all?
>>GRIMES: You always do.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>GRIMES: And the reason seems
to be because, otherwise, we
are as clueless when we
leave our bodies as we
were when we left our mothers.
>>NOORY: So do they kind of
like take you along with them?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
They comfort you.
And, usually, people will
stop talking to the living
when they first see the dead.
>>NOORY: Here, Roberta, let's
take you to the other side.
Follow us.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
Well, you know,
basically, the first--
here's a bit of warning.
Never-- when you first
see people who are living,
be very careful about
not paying attention--
living that you
thought were dead--
be careful about
paying attention
to the people around
you, around your bedside.
Because they'll be upset.
And one of the ways
people can get stuck
is to try to comfort the
people around their bedside,
once they're out
of their bodies.
Because--
>>NOORY: What do
you mean by stuck?
Like, they don't leave?
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: OK.
Like a ghost would stay.
>>GRIMES: You become
an earthbound, yes.
>>NOORY: All right.
So let's assume you now move
on with these other entities,
right?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Where are
they taking you?
>>GRIMES: They're-- we think
they're taking us to a distant
place, but they're not.
Because, as we are leaving
that room, we notice
it starts to get
vague and vapory.
What we're doing is
raising our vibration.
They're helping us do that.
As we raise our
vibration, we kind of go
through a period of fog,
but they're right with us.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: And then,
the fog clears,
and we pick up this
beautiful reality,
which is right in the
same place that room was.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>GRIMES: That's how it actually
happens, if you're awake.
>>NOORY: Is it a
glorious place to be?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
It's made of a different
kind of matter.
Think of alabaster, but
brilliantly colored.
It's got beautiful scenery.
>>NOORY: Do you see angels with
harps and the little wings?
>>GRIMES: No, you
see regular people
doing interesting things.
And, often, they're wearing
just regular clothing.
What we call--
>>NOORY: Do you know your dead?
>>GRIMES: Well, if you don't,
you soon figure it out.
>>NOORY: You do, eventually?
>>GRIMES: But you have
your loved ones with you.
>>NOORY: That have passed on?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
And they'll answer your
questions and stuff.
You have your guides
with you, as well.
Many of-- we typically
enter at level three.
And those entrances,
at level three, are--
which is-- remember, we talked
about the outer darkness.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GRIMES: Then
there's a level two.
Level three, four,
and five, those
are what we call the
Summerland levels.
They're beautiful.
They're solid.
They're the most beautiful
scenery you can imagine.
Nothing dies.
Nothing fades.
The flowers will follow
you, you know, as you go by.
They give off music.
They give off a beautiful scent.
They're in colors
you've never seen,
because they're beyond the
visible light spectrum.
It's gorgeous.
In the North
American Summerland,
if we look off to
a little distance,
you can see the Rocky Mountains.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>GRIMES: In the
British Summerland--
very similar to the North
American Summerland--
there are no mountains.
>>NOORY: Huh.
Our friend that we've been
talking about, Raymond Moody,
has a new series on
Gaia called "Legacy."
>>GRIMES: Uh-huh.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
>>RAYMOND MOODY: That they
hear the doctor say something
like, oh, my god, he's dead.
Or we've lost her.
Which is very
surprising to them,
because they say
that, I have never
felt so alive as when I heard
that doctor say I was dead.
Because, from their
point of view,
they feel that they
distance themselves
from their physical body.
And they watch the scene of
the resuscitation, typically
from the point of view above it.
As this progresses, they
eventually wake up to the fact
that, oh, this must be
something to do with death.
And, at that point, they enter
into states of consciousness
that, no matter how
articulate they may be,
they say there are
no words for it.
That it's ineffable
or indescribable.
They go through a passageway
into a beautiful light.
They feel comfort,
peace, and joy.
They meet relatives and friends
of theirs who have died.
And they go through
panoramic memory,
in which everything
they've ever done
is displayed around them in
a sort of holographic three
dimensional panorama.
And they come back
from these experiences
with a total new take
on life, thinking
that the most important thing
we can do while we're here
is to learn how to
love, and saying
that they have no
more fear of death,
because they feel
that death is just
a transition into
some other reality.
>>NOORY: What do you
think of that, Roberta?
>>GRIMES: I think
he's a lovely man.
He coined the term--
in case anyone
doesn't know this--
near-death experiences.
>>NOORY: Yes, he did.
>>GRIMES: And what
he describes there
is a beautiful near-death
experience and a very typical
one.
Near-death experiences
prove our minds easily
exist when our brains
are not functioning.
I mean, that's a very
important kind of proof.
They also happen in the astral,
with our guides around us,
often our loved ones around us,
and we learn beautiful things.
Very often, people will say,
I learned all this stuff,
and then I never forgot
it when I got back here.
That's by design.
You need to know there's
more, but it's not time
for you to know what
that all is yet.
So I don't mean
to diminish NDEs.
They're extraordinary, and
I'm so grateful they happen.
It's just important
we understand they
don't happen in the afterlife.
They happen in the astral plane.
>>NOORY: Do you think the
dying process is something
that we should be scared of?
>>GRIMES: No.
Dying is like the best
time of your life.
>>NOORY: No, no, no, no.
>>GRIMES: I'm
serious about that.
>>NOORY: Maybe for you.
>>GRIMES: That's
why my first book
was called "The Fun of Dying."
It really is.
>>NOORY: I know.
It was an interesting title.
But you know what, I'm
in no hurry to get there.
>>GRIMES: No, but you--
it's not your time yet.
You shouldn't be in
a hurry to get there.
I'm older than you are,
and I'm at a point now
where I look forward to it,
but I know I can't go yet.
>>NOORY: But you're
not ready for it.
>>GRIMES: No, I'm not.
But I'm certainly
not afraid of it.
I mean--
>>NOORY: So when
the time comes--
>>GRIMES: Party time.
>>NOORY: --so be it.
>>GRIMES: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: What do
you mean party time?
>>GRIMES: It's party time.
>>NOORY: What do you
do on the other side?
You go dancing?
What do you do?
>>GRIMES: You do
whatever you want to do.
It's beautiful.
It's amazing.
You have a body that is young.
Typically, we choose
to look the way
we looked in our
most recent lifetime,
when we were maybe 25 to 35--
that range.
Because that's when we usually
looked and felt the best.
>>NOORY: My hair
was too long then.
I didn't like that.
>>GRIMES: Well, you know what,
you can have shorter hair.
You can redesign your body.
You could have a body
from an earlier lifetime,
if you choose.
But that body is equipped
with sensory organs
that are much stronger.
People say you've
never heard music
unless you heard it there.
It's extra-- the music
is extraordinary.
You can't-- even people who--
there was one fellow who died
100 or some years ago.
His family was worried
because he was almost blind.
And they said, well,
can you see better dad?
And he said, I'll tell
you how well I can see.
About 50 miles from
here, it looks like there
are beautiful mountain--
Rocky Mountains.
>>NOORY: 50 miles?
>>GRIMES: Yes, I
can see-- so I--
>>NOORY: Well, you
could see that far here.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
And he said that, in
front of those mountains,
there are foothills
covered with trees.
I can see, from here,
every leaf on every tree
on all of those foothills.
>>NOORY: That's
pretty good vision.
>>GRIMES: Excellent.
And it's almost panoramic.
We don't think it's quite
panoramic, but pretty much.
So you can see what's behind
you and all around you.
>>NOORY: Is the afterlife
almost like the physical life?
I mean, do they
watch television?
Do they listen my show on radio?
>>GRIMES: That's an
interesting question.
Because what I read
was all 100 years ago.
There was no technology at all.
>>NOORY: Right.
So they have no basis.
>>GRIMES: Now, more
recently, there's quite a bit
more technology.
For example, my
mother showed me--
we were working--
I was working with a
medium, and my mother
showed the medium that there's
a big TV on their wall.
She said, using this TV, I can
watch my loved ones on Earth
any time I want to.
I just turn it on and I love--
I love watching Roberta, because
she's always up to something.
>>NOORY: Well, you're
passionate about this.
>>GRIMES: I guess.
Yeah, I guess I am passionate.
>>NOORY: What about
the hall of records?
You know, what about our
life reading that they say
is in the book?
>>GRIMES: Well, here's-- we do--
we do a life review.
And, as Raymond pointed out,
there's a limited life review
often-- or I can't
remember who did it.
Maybe it was Eben.
So we do all of that, and
we get to see this lifetime.
But many of us are curious
about prior lifetimes.
Now, in our mind, when
we first rejoin it,
is the memories of
our major lifetimes.
We already know, you know,
oh, yes, I was Julius Caesar,
or whatever.
We already know that stuff.
But we're interested
in the less--
sort of less
important lifetimes.
So there is a way
to review them.
And we think what happens is
you go to this big library,
and you basically revisit--
>>NOORY: With your
loved ones maybe?
>>GRIMES: Or by yourself.
A lot of people do
this by themselves.
And you revisit the life review
hologram for that lifetime.
And basically
you're in it again.
You can research almost anything
in those halls of records.
>>NOORY: I've never
seen somebody so jovial
about death in all my life.
>>GRIMES: Well, wouldn't it
be great if everybody was?
And if everybody knew what
I know, they would be.
>>NOORY: You don't see any
morbidity about it at all,
do you?
>>GRIMES: No, no.
Which is hard
sometimes on people
who have just lost someone.
>>NOORY: Oh, of course.
>>GRIMES: Because my
first reaction is--
>>NOORY: And you
could understand that.
>>GRIMES: --good for him.
Could He finally got to go home.
>>NOORY: You don't go to a
funeral laughing, do you?
>>GRIMES: I don't
usually go to funerals.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>GRIMES: Well, I guess if I had
someone very close to me die,
but it's been a long
time since I had
a relative or close friend die.
>>NOORY: Well, would you look in
the casket and go, you made it.
>>GRIMES: I usually--
when my mother died,
we didn't even look at her body.
What would be the point?
It was a closed casket.
I'm going to be cremated.
>>NOORY: I don't
like open caskets.
>>GRIMES: No, it's horrible.
But if I'm not cremated,
I will haunt my husband,
just so he knows that.
>>NOORY: You make it sound--
and take it, please, politely--
you make it sound like it's a
party time on the other side.
>>GRIMES: It is a party time.
It's a happy time.
I mean, imagine if you've
gone through your whole life
thinking that you were going to
die and that would be the end,
and then you get to this
gorgeous place, and they say,
guess what, your
life is eternal.
You were just away
for a few minutes.
We're so glad to have you home.
>>NOORY: Where does
reincarnation fit into this?
>>GRIMES: Reincarnation
does happen.
It's one of the last things
I was willing to accept.
But it doesn't happen--
>>NOORY: You'd fought that, huh?
>>GRIMES: I'm sorry?
>>NOORY: You fought that?
>>GRIMES: Big time.
Big time, I fought it.
Because I was very Christian
during a lot of this period.
Reincarnation happens,
but it doesn't happen
the way we think it does.
Because beyond this
material universe,
everything is without
time and without space.
So, without time,
all your lifetimes
are happening at the same time.
And they're influencing
one another, which
is why, when Brian Weiss does--
was it Brian?
Whatever his first name is.
When he does his past
life regressions--
>>NOORY: It is Brian Weiss.
>>GRIMES: OK.
When he does his past
life regressions,
he can pick up
something that happened
in an earlier lifetime that's
influencing your lifetime now.
As soon as you remember
it, you lose that fear,
or whatever the problem was.
I had a fear of falling
off a high place,
until I spontaneously
remembered a lifetime
as a young Indian man
who thought he could fly.
And that dumb kid, he
just flew off a cliff.
And that was the end of it.
>>NOORY: So the dead have
fun, in your opinion?
>>GRIMES: Oh, they
have so much fun.
It's just a fact.
They do have a
tremendous amount of fun.
>>NOORY: Do you need money?
>>GRIMES: No.
>>NOORY: You don't
need any of that?
>>GRIMES: That was one
of the first things
my mother-in-law said.
She was a Depression--
you know, she'd lived
through the Depression.
And she said, you can
do anything you want,
and you don't need money.
That was the first
thing she said
when we communicated with her.
No money.
>>NOORY: Are you young again?
>>GRIMES: Yep.
>>NOORY: Doing things
you want to do?
>>GRIMES: Yep.
>>NOORY: There's got
to be a downside here.
>>GRIMES: The downside
is that, above you,
if you are level three
or four, above you,
you know is much more glory
than you can even imagine.
>>NOORY: Is that heaven?
>>GRIMES: That's--
well, the very top--
>>NOORY: What we call heaven?
>>GRIMES: All of it is heaven.
All of it's lovely.
But you want to
grow spiritually,
because that's the thing there.
Here, you want money.
There, you want to
grow spiritually.
Every craving you've had in
your whole life put together
is how much you crave
to grow spiritually.
>>NOORY: What if you
could live that way now,
when you're still alive?
What would that do to
you, as a human being?
>>GRIMES: That's what we're
trying to make happen.
That highest afterlife
level-- level 6--
is what Jesus called
the Kingdom of God.
What he came to
do 2,000 years ago
was teach us how to bring
the Kingdom of God on Earth.
That's what he said.
No one listens to him.
So what we're trying to do
now is make that happen.
And it will be glorious beyond
what anyone can imagine.
>>NOORY: How do you get
the word out about this?
>>GRIMES: Well, I talk
to you, for one thing.
We're in the process
of establishing
an online university.
We're going to have to do that.
We're raising the
money now to do it.
But there-- once everybody
knows all of this,
there'll be no war, no
more wars, no more crime,
no more hatred, no more--
no more anything negative.
All the negativity will go away.
>>NOORY: Psychic
Carolyn Molnar had this
to say about what the
spirits do in the afterlife,
much like what you're saying.
>>CAROLYN MOLNAR:
What I've come to know
is that, if somebody is a
homemaker and loves their home,
they're going to have a
beautiful, spotless home,
and they don't have to
worry about dusting,
because there's no
dust over there.
You know, it's wonderful.
And they want to make their
wonderful gourmet food,
all they have to do
is snap their fingers
and it's all done, because
it's all through thought.
They can eat, if they want to.
They don't have to.
If they love to play
sports, they will.
They will not be in
their old bodies.
If they died at age 86, and
they want to be 32, they will.
Oftentimes, I've had 32-year-old
grandfathers coming in.
They go, well, it sounds
right, except he wasn't 32.
He was 86.
And I'd say, well, guess what.
He wants to be 32, and he is.
You know, and if he was a
great baseball player, that's
what they want to
do, or whatever,
if they want to play
cards with their friends,
they will do that.
It's an amazing experience.
On top of all that,
they get to and learn,
if they want to, to progress
their soul, to get more ideas.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
Which reminds me of a
story, which I'll tell you.
>>GRIMES: OK.
>>NOORY: Two dear
friends, Rose and Betty,
were friends from school.
They'd lived together.
They dated guys together.
And they grew old together.
And they made a pact
with each other.
And the pact was,
whoever dies, comes back
and tells the other person
what it's really like.
And that was the pact.
And then, one day, Betty died.
And Rose is in bed sleeping one
night, and she hears a voice.
Rose, Rose, Rose.
Rose wakes up.
Betty?
Betty is that you?
Yes, Rose.
It's me.
I'm on the other side.
Betty, what's it like?
What's it like?
Well, there's good
news and bad news.
What's the good news?
I'm young again, and we
play softball every day,
and it's always sunny,
and it's gorgeous.
Well, what's the bad news?
Rose, you're pitching tomorrow.
>>GRIMES: Oh, no.
That's great.
That's cute.
>>NOORY: That's a
nice story, isn't it?
>>GRIMES: Very cute.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: But what it tells you
is that let's not be in a hurry
to get to the other side.
You seem to be anxious.
>>GRIMES: I'm excited--
I have spent my life
decades studying this.
I know it's true.
I know it's real.
And I know I'll have
much more fun there,
and I won't be in this old body.
I'll look the way I looked in
my 20s, which was gorgeous.
And so why wouldn't
I want to be there?
The problem is this--
I came in with
reasons to be here.
>>NOORY: Do people argue
with you when they hear this?
>>GRIMES: No.
>>NOORY: This chipper
person, this upbeat person
talking about the afterlife?
>>GRIMES: No, most people
think it's a wonderful thing.
>>NOORY: They're
refreshed by it.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
Yeah.
I hear now-- sometimes I spend
all day answering questions.
People email me through
robertagrimes.com.
>>NOORY: What are their
biggest concerns, Roberta?
What do they want to know?
>>GRIMES: Oh, so many things.
Many people I hear from now
are dissatisfied Christians.
And because I'm writing
more about the fact
that Jesus is right, but
Christianity is wrong.
>>NOORY: Because of the
direction of religions,
organized religions?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRIMES: Christianity,
it went wrong
literally within a few
decades after Jesus' death.
And they just they think it's
a lifeline, because they do
love Jesus.
They just don't
like the rest of it.
And I say guess what, you don't
have to have the rest of it.
We're going to give Jesus
the movement that he
tried to begin 2000 years ago.
>>NOORY: Well, now, that's an
interesting thing you bring up.
Because when you die,
do you meet Jesus?
>>GRIMES: Jesus is
probably reported
as someone they meet almost
more often than anybody else.
Jesus is very active
in the afterlife.
>>NOORY: What level?
All levels?
>>GRIMES: Well, yeah.
I believe, based on--
this is just a belief--
I believe Jesus is at the
very top of the Godhead,
and was when he came to earth.
>>NOORY: Why would
somebody be a level three,
somebody else would
be at level four or 5?
And what's the highest level?
What would you call it?
>>GRIMES: Well, the highest
level is the source level.
>>NOORY: Would that be
called a seven, a 10.
>>GRIMES: Yeah, seven.
>>NOORY: A seven.
So why is somebody a
three and not a seven?
>>GRIMES: Because people--
most of the people
you know have a balance of
positive and negative emotions.
You know, they get angry still.
>>NOORY: Sure
>>GRIMES: They-- all of that.
When they die, they're
going to be at level three.
That's where most people--
>>NOORY: And do they take
that anger with them?
>>GRIMES: They take
their inability
to rise above it with them, yes.
They don't feel angry,
but they don't have yet
this perfect peace that--
I mean, I know some people who
really shouldn't even be here.
They are-- they're, you know,
probably level six beings.
And they all are the same.
They all have this
peace about them.
They can't even be
around negative people.
And the only thing they care
about is serving others.
This isn't just, oh, I'm
trying to get brownie points.
I want to serve.
No, that's all they
care about, really.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: And
that's how you grow.
You get past ego.
Ego has to die.
You get past wanting any
kind of negative thing
to happen to anyone.
When you read the
Gospels, Jesus tells us
how it feels to
be that advanced.
You know, you turn
the other cheek.
>>NOORY: What level will you
be at when it's your time?
>>GRIMES: I think
that's-- to me,
that's a very
interesting question.
I've been told that I--
>>NOORY: I'd say it's high up.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: High up.
I don't know how high,
but you're up there.
>>GRIMES: No, I think
I'm high level four,
or I'm even level
five, at this point.
>>NOORY: Because you
understand the dying process?
>>GRIMES: No, because I have
gone through what Jesus told us
we need to do in order to bring
the Kingdom of God on Earth.
And it works.
Not to plug a book, but my book,
"The Fun of Growing Forever,"
gives us Jesus' lessons
and applies them for today.
I did those myself.
And it transformed me in
ways which I can't even
begin to tell you.
I don't get angry anymore.
I don't need to forgive,
because I just never
get upset with anyone anymore.
>>NOORY: Did you used to?
>>GRIMES: Oh, you
wouldn't believe.
I was-- I was a prima donna.
I was-- I was a lethal driver.
I mean, don't--
>>NOORY: Were you a road rager?
>>GRIMES: Oh, you
wouldn't believe.
>>NOORY: No, not you!
>>GRIMES: Once I chased
a man off the highway,
because I was so irritated
that he had cut me off.
>>NOORY: And what were you going
to do if you caught up to him?
>>GRIMES: Well, that was the--
that's the real problem.
I chased him through a park.
And then he started to
hit a police station.
I thought I ought to stop
chasing him at that point.
That's who I was.
>>NOORY: What if he had
gotten out and shot you?
>>GRIMES: You know, I
was young at the time,
and let's say I was
just not thinking.
>>NOORY: A little naive?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
But I was angry.
>>NOORY: Well, what got
you out of that mode?
What got you to stop
acting that way?
>>GRIMES: The real trick
is learning prevenient--
what I call prevenient
forgiveness,
forgiving everything that's ever
going to happen in your life
before it actually--
anything actually happens.
>>NOORY: Could you
forgive somebody
who hurt a family member?
>>GRIMES: Of course.
>>NOORY: You could?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Intentionally?
>>NOORY: Somebody hurt
them intentionally?
>>GRIMES: Murdered a child, yes.
>>NOORY: You could forgive them?
>>GRIMES: I couldn't
have done that before,
but I can do it now.
>>NOORY: I can't.
Does that mean there's
something wrong with me?
>>GRIMES: No, that just means--
A Course in Miracles is
another more advanced way
to learn the same thing.
And it begins by saying
this is a required course.
>>NOORY: I could
forgive somebody
who killed someone
in an accident,
because it was an accident.
I could even
forgive somebody who
killed someone while they were
drunk and got into an accident.
But a murderer, I
couldn't forgive.
>>GRIMES: But here's the thing--
none of this really is real.
Anyone who is
harmed by someone--
someone you love who's harmed--
they're still fine.
And you'll see them in
like a minute and a half.
These lives are very short.
>>NOORY: Yeah, but
you still miss them.
>>GRIMES: But the harm you
do to yourself by being angry
is a horrendous harm, because
you're keeping yourself
from growing spiritually.
>>NOORY: This is your
Christianity upbringing
coming out.
>>GRIMES: No, it's
Jesus coming out.
I had-- I've totally
ditched Christianity.
It is not real.
It's not true.
And it's fear based,
which means that it's--
anyone who is a seriously
practicing Christian
can't grow spiritually.
We have to get rid
of Christianity,
and let Jesus have his turn.
>>NOORY: In this stage,
how many of us, if we die,
come back to the
ones we care about?
>>GRIMES: To visit them?
>>NOORY: To visit them.
>>GRIMES: It's
probably close to 100%.
>>NOORY: Constantly?
>>GRIMES: No.
They give us signs
in the beginning.
And so everybody, if you
lose someone, be watching.
Familiar song on
the radio, penny
that you didn't expect
to see there, feathers,
insects of various kinds.
Although, the ones
they mostly give
us are butterflies
and dragonflies.
Lots of signs.
That's my book, "The Fun
of Staying in Touch."
And they do that
in the beginning.
And most people
will say, oh, look,
I've seen dragonflies all
day, and, oh, one is on my--
one is-- that's
just a coincidence.
You should never say
that's a coincidence.
>>NOORY: But I don't
believe in coincidences.
>>GRIMES: Well, that's good.
See, you're ahead of
everybody else then.
>>NOORY: I think there's fate.
>>GRIMES: The thing to do
is to say, thank you, dad.
Please do it again.
In case it is a sign.
Because, if we give them
that kind-- and speaking
aloud helps them energetically.
Because we keep
encouraging signs,
we'll get more and more of them.
>>NOORY: How long do we
stay in this state of bliss
when we pass over?
>>GRIMES: Eternally, because
there's no time there.
>>NOORY: That's a long time.
>>GRIMES: If you--
usually, people
will start to crave
growing more spiritually,
and so they'll design
another lifetime.
But they usually spend
a lot of time there.
It's like R and R, after a very,
very rough period on Earth.
But there's no time there.
They don't think
in terms of time.
Those who are trying to stay in
touch with loved ones on Earth
will sort of be aware of time--
you know, Earth time.
But other than that, they
don't care about time.
>>NOORY: If family members
came up to you and said,
my family just died, or my
family member just passed on,
and they're grieving,
and they're upset,
what do you tell them?
>>GRIMES: Well, I don't.
I listen.
I ask them, tell me--
tell me what you need to know.
How can I help you?
I do work in, pretty quickly,
he or she is perfectly fine,
and they're right here with us.
And they're hoping that
you will find what you
need to have peace about this.
You will see them again.
You'll hug.
Everything is going
to be wonderful.
People want to hear that.
But they don't want
to hear, move on.
They don't want to
hear anything negative.
>>NOORY: He's in
hell, or whatever,
they don't want to hear that?
>>GRIMES: No.
No, that would be
really something
they wouldn't want to hear.
>>NOORY: Back to reincarnation
for just a moment.
Do they all reincarnate?
>>GRIMES: No, it's up to you.
>>NOORY: It's our choice?
And why reincarnate then?
Why come back?
>>GRIMES: So that you
can grow spiritually.
If you're there, it's like
being in a spiritual hammock.
There's nothing to push against.
>>NOORY: So if you come
in, in a stage three,
you're stuck in that level?
Can you advance to a four,
five, six while you're there?
>>GRIMES: What we think the case
is, based on a lot of evidence,
is that it's very difficult
to grow spiritually there.
Those who can't
stand coming to Earth
will sometimes
volunteer to be a guide.
So they will get their Earth
experience guiding people
through their lifetimes.
But that's something
which you can only
do if you're pretty
advanced yourself,
so they go through a lot of
periods of minimal sort of--
I mean, it's boring to
guide regular people,
when you can't even do
much to help them yourself.
That's the hard way
to grow spiritually.
The easy way is to go
to the spiritual gym.
You plan a workout here.
You strip down to a
small part of your mind.
You get on those machines--
death of a child, you know,
horrible illness,
and you work out.
Because then you can
grow spiritually.
>>NOORY: Renown medium,
James Van Praagh,
who has a show on Gaia
called "Spirit Talk," talks
about reincarnation.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: And it
seems that, as soul beings, when
we get to the other side
of life, what happens
is we meet with our guides.
We meet with our spirit
teachers, our counselors.
And we really will sit down and
prepare for another lifetime.
We will look in this
past life we just had
and review it, and see
all the soul lessons
that we learned, whether
those lessons might
have been about forgiveness, or
compassion, or understanding.
Or maybe there was also
some karmic obligations
we had with another family
member, with a friend,
with a partner.
We now know a little
about those, right?
It's like, what's going on here?
Jeez!
You know?
So that's really-- we work these
things out in each lifetime.
So we'll sit with our
guides and teachers,
and we'll really kind
of map out our agenda
for the next lifetime.
And we'll put ourselves
in various situations,
and certain events
will happen, in order
for us to really
learn and to grow
and be involved in that
experience about patience,
or about forgiveness,
or about caring,
or about loving yourself.
So reincarnation, you perfect.
You get better and better, and
you understand the lesson more
and more.
And I think the more
experiences we have,
the more evolved we become.
>>NOORY: It seems, Roberta,
that more and more people,
like yourself, like
Van Praagh, are really
refreshed about the afterlife.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: In a very upbeat way.
I was once afraid.
When I was very
young, I was afraid.
We all are in the
beginning, because we're
afraid of the unknown.
>>NOORY: I mean, I
hope you're right.
I do.
I want you to be right.
It sounds like a
great place to visit--
>>GRIMES: It is.
>>NOORY: --or to stay.
>>GRIMES: The best part of
it is it's all made of love.
The only thing that
exists there is love.
>>NOORY: What if you're
wrong, and it just ends?
You die, it's over.
You know what my
answer is to that?
Who cares?
>>GRIMES: Yeah, right, because
you wouldn't know anyway.
>>NOORY: You wouldn't know.
>>GRIMES: Right.
No, that's how life starts.
You go home.
You have a whole new
outlook on things
if you've had a good lifetime,
you've grown spiritually.
You get to be with
your eternal friends.
I don't-- people might think,
I don't have any friends.
You have a lot of friends.
They just aren't in
bodies right now.
>>NOORY: Why do we
have a physical life
in the first place?
>>GRIMES: It's going
to the gym, This
is where we come to experience
the negativity that gives us
something to push against.
That's why we have free will,
because whatever the question
is, love is always the answer.
But we will, instead,
make short term decisions,
choose hatred, anger, fear--
all those emotions--
which lower our vibration.
>>NOORY: So is this a school?
>>GRIMES: Well, people
think of it as a school,
but I call it a gym, because we
really come here to workout--
workout spiritually.
>>NOORY: Do we need trainers?
>>GRIMES: Well,
we have trainers.
We have our guides,
who are desperately
eager to help us grow.
I mean, your best
friend is your guide.
So it's-- to allow them to have
the opportunity to be a bigger
part of your life
is a good thing.
>>NOORY: Are you changing
the world, in your opinion?
>>GRIMES: I think
many people right now
are changing the world.
You're doing a tremendous job of
changing the world just opening
people's minds and hearts.
Because those who
are not in bodies,
way above our pay
grade, are working
to open the minds and
hearts of people on Earth.
But if we aren't there to
help them, to guide them,
to give them the
information they crave,
there's a limit to what those
at the highest level can do.
Our job is a very important one.
We're giving people the
truth and, as Jesus said,
the truth will set you free.
>>NOORY: When the
day comes and you
go to the other side, what's
it going to be like for you?
>>GRIMES: It's going to
the best time of my life.
I can't wait.
Do you know what happens?
>>NOORY: You really
believe that.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
Oh, I know it.
I'll tell you-- I'll tell you--
someone asked me, well, why are
you working so hard to do this,
because I work day and night?
And I said, I want the parade.
They didn't understand
what I was talking about.
Those who have
given their lives,
or a good part of their lives,
or just plain lived their lives
in coordination with
spirit, in love,
doing little things for
people, get parades.
>>NOORY: When's the last
time you road raged?
>>GRIMES: Probably
about a decade ago.
>>NOORY: That long?
Are there times you're driving,
and you go [ANGRY GRUNT]??
>>GRIMES: Never.
>>NOORY: It doesn't
even there anymore.
>>GRIMES: That's the thing.
The miracle of the
teachings of Jesus--
and it's probably
true of others,
I just have been
following Jesus--
the miracle is this--
once you raise your
spiritual vibration,
once you do the forgiveness
exercises correctly,
you never go back.
>>NOORY: And you've done that?
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Have you seen
people, or individuals,
that you knew you'd have
a hard time forgiving,
but you still do?
>>GRIMES: Yeah,
what happens when
you have gone to the
place where I am now
is you simply withdraw.
You don't argue.
If someone says stuff that--
>>NOORY: You just back down?
>>GRIMES: Yes, you withdraw.
You love them.
The exercise is I
love you, I bless you,
I forgive, and I release.
And that's the exercise.
>>NOORY: Does the afterlife take
on the image of anything you
want, or is it already there?
>>GRIMES: Our minds help
to create our reality.
>>NOORY: I mean, what if you
love the Rocky Mountains?
Would you have a heaven, or
an existence in the afterlife,
that looked like that?
>>GRIMES: Well, we all actually,
who are in the North American
continent, seem
to have the Rocky
Mountains in the distance.
But if you decided you wanted
to live at the foothills
of the mountains, of course.
>>NOORY: Or a beach,
or something like that?
>>GRIMES: Yes, yes.
People can decide they
want to be on a beach.
They can decide they just
want to be on a big pond.
The great thing is the
water there is alive,
which Jesus told us it is.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: And it's made of silk.
It's really not wet.
>>NOORY: I want to be at
a blackjack table in Vegas
getting blackjacks all the time.
Can you make that happen for me?
>>GRIMES: I-- to tell you
the truth, I'm not sure.
But the question is--
>>NOORY: Can you
make it happen now?
>>GRIMES: Well, that would
be even better, of course.
>>NOORY: It sure would.
>>GRIMES: But I wouldn't
be sitting here.
I'd probably be doing it myself.
But--
>>NOORY: See, you
do have a few vices.
>>GRIMES: The thing
is when we're there,
and we're not sure-- you
know, it's all very new--
suddenly we might start
to want something.
A book.
You know, a toy even.
Anything.
>>NOORY: Can you get it?
>>GRIMES: You turn-- you
think, gee, I wish I had that.
You turn around, and
it's there in your house.
>>NOORY: And it's
there waiting for you.
>>GRIMES: Yep.
>>NOORY: Do you-- can you
have sex in the afterlife?
>>GRIMES: Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: You're kidding.
>>GRIMES: The only thing is
you don't really want it.
>>NOORY: I don't even
know why I asked you that.
>>GRIMES: Well, this is
an interesting question.
Not only can you have sex
in the after-- most people
don't want it, because
there's something way better
that you can do with anybody.
There's no morality attached.
And it's a kind of
spirit blending.
One person steps into the other,
and it's like having, they say,
a whole body orgasm.
>>NOORY: You can't reproduce
on the other side, obviously.
>>GRIMES: No, we don't
have organs to reproduce.
But we do have
sexual organs, and we
can complete the sexual act.
It's just, why do
that, if you could
have an instant, ecstatic,
whole body orgasm?
>>NOORY: Now, be careful.
This is a family show, Roberta.
>>GRIMES: Well, I'm just
telling you the way it is.
We've known about this
spiritual blending
thing, which is what
they do instead of sex,
which is better than sex.
We've known about that
for quite some time.
One thing that's
new to me, though--
I run something called
afterlifeforums.com.
Other people do it,
but I own the website.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>GRIMES: And we hear
from widows, who,
over the past really
literally year, have started--
>>NOORY: Don't say it.
Don't say it.
>>GRIMES: They've started
to say they still have sex
with their husbands who died.
They-- the husband will
show up in the bed.
>>NOORY: They mentally
think this is happening?
>>GRIMES: Well, enough of
them are saying it happens,
and insisting it
does, I'm starting
to think it probably does.
The husband appears.
They-- they do their thing.
And then he goes away again.
>>NOORY: My PG
rating for this show
has just gone out the window.
>>GRIMES: I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, but I
think it's neat.
Don't you think so?
These very loving marriages.
Yeah, they're very
happy about it.
They-- basically,
it keeps them happy
that they are still
involved with their husband,
until they get to be
with each other again.
>>NOORY: And if you've been
bad on this planet as a human,
and you go to the
afterlife, you'll
probably be stuck with like an
old hag, or something, right?
>>GRIMES: No.
>>NOORY: That's your punishment?
No.
If you've done
things here you have
trouble forgiving yourself
for, when you get to see--
because we get to see how our
actions affected other people.
And if you did
things that really
made other people feel
horrible, and it never
occurred to you that
that was the result,
it can be very hard to
forgive yourself for that.
>>NOORY: Can you come back and
help humans on the other side?
>>GRIMES: Yes, but it can--
sometimes you have to have some
strings pulled, because--
>>NOORY: Who pulls the strings?
>>GRIMES: Well,
very, very high--
>>NOORY: Way up, like the
archangels, people like that,
entities like that?
>>GRIMES: Yeah, may need to
approve what you want to do.
But if what you want
to do is not for you,
but is purely for others,
you often can get to do it.
>>NOORY: Right.
That's a remarkable possibility.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
It's all remarkable.
>>NOORY: And you're
sure you're right?
>>GRIMES: Yes, I am.
>>NOORY: You have no doubts?
>>GRIMES: No.
Not for a minute.
>>NOORY: Did you ever?
>>GRIMES: Oh, yes.
Oh, I doubted--
I'd say I first really
started to accept
all of this at the same time
I gave up on Christianity,
and that was late '90s.
>>NOORY: What was
the one episode
that made you give up on that?
There had to have been
some thing that happened.
>>GRIMES: I had
spent decades trying
to find one bit of evidence
that anything I had believed
as a Christian was true.
>>NOORY: And you
couldn't find it.
>>GRIMES: There was none.
Except there were
a lot of people,
who were then dead and knew
better, who said things like,
I can't talk about
this, because I
don't want to upset my family--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: --but
none of it's real.
There's no religion
practiced in the afterlife.
We don't need to
practice a religion.
Just as there are no atheists,
so there are no religionists.
>>NOORY: Do they see
god in the afterlife?
>>GRIMES: There is
no physical god.
The Christian god
does not exist.
What appears to exist--
>>NOORY: But there is a creator?
>>GRIMES: The creator,
like probably everybody
else who does major stuff
there, is a collective.
>>NOORY: So what
do you tell someone
who is at the moment of death?
>>GRIMES: I'm so happy for you.
That's what I told my mother.
I said-- I said, you have
no idea how I envy you.
She didn't believe me.
>>NOORY: Are you one of a kind?
>>GRIMES: No, there are many
people who feel as I do.
I have friends who say to
one another-- you know,
husband and wife-- will
say, well, one day closer.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
Roberta, thanks for
being on the program.
>>GRIMES: Thank
you for having me.
>>NOORY: Well, so
you just heard it
from somebody who actually
is happy about going on
to the other side.
I would like to wait
a little bit for me.
It's up to you.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]